let's get started so welcome Scott you
said it's Scott yeah yes that's good
yeah yeah so Scott tell me a little bit
about you know what what's bringing you
on stream today and and how we can be
helpful I guess pretty much a core it's
just video game addiction okay so I play
way too many games okay like upwards of
pretty much like 18 to 20 hours a day
and I'll get a whole lot of sleep so oh
wow a lot of games yeah that's kind of
an average and it pretty much effects a
whole lot of stuff like friendships
relationships like outside of games and
stuff like that
sure and obviously like ability to get a
job so what are the things like gaming
is kind of like a kind like a recovery
thing for me like if I get some bad news
I could just go into a big spiral of
playing all the games and stuff like
that so okay mmm that kind of kind of
shifting away from that it's kind of
replacing it with something healthier I
guess I'll just hang out as a bit sure
um and can you tell me a little bit
about which games you play um a lot of
world warcraft um like way too much um
better league as well and fighting games
as well like which ones smash Tekken
mostly okay and in and what are you
usually doing Wow um at the when I play
classic and I just finished ranking and
classic if that makes me like ranking is
pretty much just like a competition of
no life like you like one to fourteen
everyone ranks up you get a certain
amount of points every week and if you
don't play for a week you lose points so
it's like notorious for just being like
no life you just have to keep no lifing
oh interesting so it's actually a
competition where who can put much time
and it's not skill at all interesting
really weird what do you mean by rank up
from 1 to 14 supreme it's like you get
from rank 1 to 14 used to everyone
starts at 1 and then you get punch like
a bracket system and so like whoever
gets the most honor in a week gets it
put into a bracket bracket 1 well
technically bracket 14 gives you the
most points and then gradually gets
worse they'll be like 7 people and like
a large server back
one kind of thing okay top bracket
they'll get the most points and then you
wreck up to 14 to get the Reg 14 is not
a PvP thing in game or is it outside a
game never I ain't gay ranked for things
like a you got like a title high
wallowed or grand marshal okay Nikita
the Kia pretty much okay okay so but so
so but the rank is determined by the
amount of honor and honor can just be
lined in right yeah yeah pretty much
like people bought it like all the time
like people just live and I'll track
Valley and just afk all the time okay
it's literally just to place the most
okay and and is that fun
um oddly enough yes but I've kind of got
like a like a ladder addiction like when
I see my name go up on a ladder
I get happier okay when it goes down I
get worse it was the same in League okay
like if I slow myself like getting lower
rank I wasn't as happy but if I was
going I was tapping sir okay
yeah what's I'm kind of curious about
that when you say happy what does that
mean um I guess it's like a progress
thing like when you see progress you get
happier like I guess it's kind of the
same if you had a promotion to work
you're happier you get a promotion in
league I'm happier if I got my rank I'm
happy and and so it sounds like you're
able to get a lot of happiness through
ranking up to to an extent and then you
realize like you're not this is all like
just a virtual thing it's like you don't
get any real life benefits from it I
guess how do you realize that when does
that happen um pretty much when I talk
to the people that I went to school with
and they're talking about things that
they've gained IRL like you know like
they just bought a new car or that kind
of thing how does that make you feel um
not the best kind of like I'm wasting
time I guess so okay so you feel like
you're wasting time when you're talking
to your friends no wasting time when I'm
playing a whole little while when I'm
doing you feel the feeling of wasting
time yeah I guess that's when I talk to
my friends and I I realized that if I
compare myself to pretty much the
average person they don't have a lot of
the life skills that they have Oh
or a lot of the experiences in life that
they have mm-hmm so it's all my
experiences pretty much comes from my
games okay hmm
I'm just thinking a little bit about
your brain yeah and the interesting
thing is that you know you know if you
present your brain with something that
makes you feel happy and then you
present it with something that makes you
feel bad your brain is gonna gravitate
towards the thing that makes you feel
happy
right we don't walk around punching
ourselves in the face because that's
beautiful and and so if I think about it
without what I would imagine that your
brain is actually telling you to play
more video games and telling you to talk
to your friends less yeah yeah pretty
much 20 cent that's pretty much how it
goes like I I used to play a lot of
league when it was like a thing that I
could play my school friends and then
kind of gravitated away from it when Wow
came out and it's less so of like a
friend grind it more of like a solo
grind like if I can stay up for like 20
hours and just played all the time
then I get the feeling of being happy in
the progression aspect in games while
not we're getting reminded of the whole
they're progressing and life think yeah
absolutely and and that too is kind of
tricky because I think sometimes our
brain doesn't know the difference
between I mean so the reason that we
feel like progressing so just think
about this for a second the reason that
you feel like progressing like how does
that work how do you have any idea how
you're you like how do you how does a
human being feel like they're
progressing like what's the circuitry or
mechanism behind that any idea um I
guess it's I really know like the
scientific way obviously but I mean I
guess it's just like the the emotional
value that comes with not being where
you previously were I guess but so you
know being somewhere that you weren't
feeling up I guess I don't know yeah yes
it's a sense of progress right yeah and
and where do you think this is gonna
sound that kind of a silly question but
where in your body does that sense of
come from like what on you finishes the
chest like I feel I feel a lot more
whole I guess mm-hmm kind of sad to say
I think but it's I feel a lot more
accomplished yeah just to know that if I
walk around like the main city that I'm
a higher rank then pretty much like
every player yeah so it just feels
better yeah and and so you know it's
kind of interesting we because we think
about addiction and you know a lot of
times like but we think about addiction
is a bad thing right like do you think
that your addiction to video games is a
bad thing I do yeah why because there's
a lot more efficient things I could be
doing with my life I guess like this is
a very temporary thing whereas like if I
look at like the French for example
who's working maybe like 40 hour weeks
at like maybe not the best job but he's
getting money and he's gaining life
skills he's updating like he's getting
something that's good for a CV whereas
I'm getting titles in a game and you
know is more efficient than yours
because it helps them more in the long
run I don't think that my addiction
helps me in the long run other than
maybe competitiveness and like addiction
help you does it help you yeah I mean in
the in the current time
it pretty much helps me with just
feeling whole I feel a bit happier while
playing more I guess yeah so why do you
say that his I mean so let me just let
me just think about this for a second so
I could go to a job that I don't like
very much
for the purpose of getting something on
my CV which also putting together a CV
doesn't make you feel whole or
accomplished it's just boring ass work
yeah and and then or I can feel whole
and happy and accomplished through
playing a video game why would I want to
do the former instead of the latter
because I feel like I don't know I see I
see a lot of things like a grind like
well ground and then there's like the
IRL ground kind of like if you're
working like a nine-to-five job Monday
to Friday you might not be in a happiest
state but it's the fact that you can
know that it's maybe leading towards the
right thing like towards the right thing
well it updates a CV it gives you maybe
a good reference if you do your best
then it can it can lead to the right
thing if you do it the right way
obviously if it's if I'm doing a job
that I'm absolutely depressed doing and
I have really bad work ethic that it
might not be a good thing mm-hmm do you
have a job but I don't why do you think
that is because if I get rejection I
pretty much fall back to Wow
or I fall back to games um and the fear
of rejection pretty much stops me from
putting my CV out there and that kind of
thing
and it just keeps me playing well say if
I go to a job interview I think I did
okay and then I don't hear back anything
at all then it's like you get that kind
of sinking feeling that you thought you
were doing well but you're not and then
it's the kind of just like to kick back
into the middle of the hole like you
climb your way out to actually stomach
it to actually go to the interview with
like pretty bad social anxiety so
stomach it to actually get out of my
house and go to the interview do the
interview and then not getting a reply
or anything that is kind of like a kick
in the face back to the hole back to 20
hours away all day yeah absolutely man I
mean okay so this is why I was kind of
confused cuz you say like you know
getting a job and working on your CV you
know it leads to something but what I'm
hearing from you is actually quite the
opposite I think what I'm hearing from
you is that like trying to do something
in the real world actually you know it's
gonna kick you back in the hole like
that's what you know the thing is I feel
like if I put more into it it might not
kick me back in the hole if I was able
to really I mean it sounds like you it
sounds like you you really have a lot
like you have these feelings of
rejection and fear of rejection sounds
like you what kind of feel socially
anxious and actually you're putting a
lot into it every time you go out for a
job interview
that's the thing I feel like I could be
doing it more like that's that's where I
think the addiction comes into place
because I I know that I could be doing
it more but it's just the question could
be doing what more putting more effort
into finding a job or any more effort
into that kind of thing
I mean I think that makes sense
theoretically but what I'm hearing from
you is like let's just think about this
for a second let's think about your
brain right yep so like your brain you
like overcome a lot of these like social
anxieties and fears of rejection and
then you go out into the world and you
apply for a job and what happens don't
get anything like no response so the
next time you apply for a job so you've
been rejected one more time right so
what happens to the fear of your
rejection every time you get rejected
it's theoretically I guess it would get
it feels like the social exciting things
like that getting easier but I don't
know no no forget about theoretically
well let's talk about you what happens
to your fear of rejection every time you
get rejected
jalaja absolutely right so let's think
about this because I don't think it gets
easier I think let's trust you let's
forget about theory ok because theory
leads us to stupid answers let's trust
you so like if I if I get on a horse and
the and I start riding the horse and the
horse throws me off and I break an arm
and then I get back on the horse again
and then I go riding and it throws me
off and I break a leg like what happens
to my fear of the horse every time the
horse tosses me off it's gonna go with
absolutely right and that's what it
feels like it doesn't get easier it
actually gets harder every time you get
rejected the sense of rejection grows
and so what is your brain gonna do if
you're getting rejected over and over
again and feeling bad about yourself
shut down and give into habits not give
into habits a very important Scott I
want you to realize this it's not giving
in to anything it's action
learning ruta rights giving in presumes
that like you're like it's failing does
that make sense giving in sounds like a
failure yeah but you're not actually
failing your brain is actually trying to
help you out it's succeeding it's
learning it's helping you by telling you
hey Scott don't apply for a [ __ ] job
because all you all it does is hurt you
it's almost like you have a an abusive
relationship with life and you're like
you know you're the person who keeps on
going back to their abusive partner even
though they get beat and your brain is
telling you that hey life is abusive
because every time you try to live life
what happens Scott get kicked absolutely
right because you brought it you get
kicked back in the hole so what do you
think about that it's really easy to
just play Wow all day absolutely and why
is it really easy to play Wow cuz it's a
really easy escape it's it's where I
feel I mean I escaped bad word good why
is it a bad word mmm because that kind
of makes it feel like I'm losing yes
yeah so it's not an escape what is it um
comfort sure yes yeah absolutely right
so I'd say it's almost like a strategy
to do what for you to just say
comfortable not put myself into any kind
of emotionally harming situations and
just stay where I'm comfortable and
happy yeah so I don't like the word
comfort because that too has a value
judgement right if someone decides to
stay comfortable we like judge them and
we say like oh you shouldn't put
yourself out push push for more yeah so
I like the word happy because I think
that's closer to the truth I also like
the word protects protect so it feels
protective to me it's like tanking like
gaming is the way that your brain tanks
the bad stuff in life yep what do you
think about that makes sense because it
kind of shelters me for everything else
which is what choice does sir absolutely
right and is that a bad thing I don't
necessarily think so why not because I
think everyone should have something
that tanks the kind of harmful things in
life for me
right now so what do we do about that
hey don't know I'll be honest I I'm not
really sure that's a great answer man
yeah I'm not so sure but I'm hoping we
can try to figure something out yeah
sure so I think the first thing to
understand is that I want you to stop
thinking about gaming as an addiction
okay because like an addiction is a
negative thing it's something that you
have to overcome and and what am I
trying to like when I'm walking you to
interpret things in a particular way
like what am I trying to do like how am
i pushing you towards like thinking
about gaming as it is like a I don't
know that it's a healthy thing that it's
that it is good for me at the moment but
I mean I yeah I don't think you vested
abnormal but I think for me it's a good
thing at the moment yeah so so I think
healthy and good for you also imply
certain value judgments right so I don't
think that your gaming is healthy I
think it is protective protectors Yeah
right so so I think that a lot of the
stuff that you said in terms of sort of
being behind in life and stuff like that
I think all that stuff makes sense I
think you should play less than 18 to 20
hours of Wow a day and I also think that
you don't play just because you're
addicted I think you play because your
brain has two options it's kind of like
we can do this one thing that leads to
uncertain like progress which is like
apply for a job and work on our CV
because you say that you know that's
gonna make your future better I don't
think your brain understands that and I
don't because I don't think that that's
fair because what has your CV done for
you Scott
we've proved us nothing this right so
then here's the thing your brain is
smart your brain is working for you and
so your brain is like Scott why the [ __ ]
are we working on this CV it's never
gotten you anything instead we've got
this other thing that gives you
happiness accomplishment and feeling
whole like why would you ever want to
work on your CV when you can get all of
those things here and all your CV ever
gets you is
more sadness exactly yeah so it's not an
addiction it's actually a protective
mechanism what is that big sigh what do
you think yeah I just just like a
realization thing because it doesn't
make sense like because it's like I feel
like a lot of people aren't necessarily
happy with their jobs but they do it
because they know that they have to and
like I'm in a pretty little fortress
situation where I don't really
necessarily need income right now so
it's I feel like I'm lucky but I feel
like I could be doing better which is
the sigh I think but it's yeah just I
realize I should say I guess yeah that
you could be doing better what does that
mean um I mean I could be living
independently I could be getting income
buying a things that I want that kind of
thing I guess sure you couldn't be doing
better what is your brain how does your
brain feel about that it wants to play
Wow feel about doing better um anxious I
guess like cuz it obviously the thought
of doing better obviously means I'm
striving to actually better myself which
in itself makes me feel quite anxious
does your brain care about bettering
yourself
um I guess directly not but that's
correct
brain doesn't give a [ __ ] doesn't and
bettering yourself that's your mind
those are your intentions but the brain
is like like if you think about it like
that's why we have to fight against
ourselves like when we exercise right
every if you go out and you try to
exercise your brain is like what what
are we doing well yeah this is fabulous
[ __ ] yeah yeah like you're just you're
running but there's no reason to run
there's no there's no purpose so our
brain is kind of the idea bettering
yourself is not something there's no
like neuroscience circuit about
bettering yourself there is a circuit
around progress right and the tricky
thing is that we have a circuit that and
the problem is that part of our brain
can't tell the difference between
progress in the real world and progress
in a virtual world right right so like
you could also argue that if you trade
stocks during the day and you see a
number on a computer screen go
we can think of that as progress but the
stimulus for the brain is exactly the
same whether you're seeing the honor go
up or the number and your bank account
go up in that moment does that make
sense yeah it is just a number on a
screen both of that are just a number on
a screen we tend to as a society at
attribute more value to one than the
other and I don't think that that's a
mistake but our brain is just like hey
we're doing better and that's a very
very deeply wired circuit of our brain
that sort of if you think about it like
you know kids fall and then they get
back up and they walk again yeah and
they keep on failing over and over and
over again but it's that that sort of
strive it's something called intent to
mastery so we all have this baked in
part of our brain that kind of like
tries to get better at stuff and wants
to see progress and it doesn't care
whether it's learning how to throw a
ball or standing up and walking or you
know grinding on other pitous yeah yeah
yeah yeah so I mean where does the sense
of better come from tell me about that
meaning like doing better and life oh
yeah like why do you want to do better
because I don't wanna be a dropkick my
life pretty much I don't want to miss
like sorry just does nothing like living
on like social benefits and stuff like
that I guess like I don't want to be I
want to study I want to raise a family I
want to provide I want to do all those
things so that I can I don't know if
it's like leave a mark on the world or
whatever it is but like I want to do
something that's like actually means
something rather than just does that
mean in like a I guess like
to provide like I don't know I want
there to be someone who actually
understood like this person did
something or like I don't know why that
is I don't know if that's like a deeply
lodged thing in people's brains but it's
something that I want to do I want to
like have my kids know that they had
like a dad who cared for them and wanted
to do something that's like I'm like
actually want to do things I guess so
what is it that you want can you say
that again uh to have people be proud of
me I guess
ya can't just think for a second yeah of
course so I just want to point something
out so I think there's a difference
between what you want and the ways in
which your mind comes up with fulfilling
that want so you said something about
having a family and and being successful
and and having a job and stuff like that
you said that these are all the things
that you want that's what you mean by
better because I was asking about it
better but what I think the really core
of I think those are all pictures of
this sense of being proud does that make
sense I think what you really want is
for people to look at you and say like
hey that's a that's an awesome person
yeah and if we think about it you know
when you think about what games protect
you from what is the main thing that
they protect you from kind of mentioned
the word a couple of times there's one
word that sadness from what drives you
into games more than anything else
happiness what negative thing what what
what let me put it this way what is what
our games tanking from like what are
they taking damage the real world uh I
favor the word I used
yeah so I mean I mentioned rejection
several times oh yeah right so like for
me the thing that seems to float to the
surface out of everything you've said is
rejection yeah what do you think is that
the main thing that they tank yeah yeah
okay pretty much so what do you think is
the relationship between wanting
people to be proud of you and rejection
if any are those two things connected I
feel like most people will go through
rejection of my life and that they'll
you kind of just have to tank through it
and that I don't know feels like
directly connected though okay fair
enough yeah okay so let's think through
this right so you have to tank through
it but games tank rejection right yeah
and as long as that rejection is there
and it's big you're gonna need to take
it so there are two things that you can
do you can tank damage or you can do
what do damage you can do damage
absolutely yeah or so if you're a rogue
right and Wow and you're in a raid the
the main tank serves as protecting you
from damage what's the other like
critical role that we're missing feeling
absolutely yeah so I think that gaming
serves as a tank but the question is
like like where is the healing in your
life right so if we think about the fear
of rejection is that which keeps you
into the game playing the game yeah and
the more that we kind of like the more
you're afraid of rejection the more you
need your tank and tanking is the game
you're the DPS like what are we missing
healer like what heals so what is it
that needs to be healed
I guess the damage that comes through
because of the rejection absolutely
right so now our question becomes when
was the first time you were kicked into
the pit probably right after high school
tell me about that I pretty much I
finished high school and I pretty much
did it nothing for a while like I didn't
really know what to get into so I was
just really down and just didn't really
know what to do with anything and then I
was found a couple games to play that
obviously filled the void and then it
was it was really hard to get out of
that pit of
playing games and being can I just
interrupt you for a second
yeah so use the phrase filling the void
yeah that implies to me like healing
right that that implies you're fixing if
I've got a pet and I fill it in the pit
is no longer there
I don't think games filled in the voyage
right
I think they boarded it up a little bit
there yeah right tap stuff a bit sorry
for interrupting you but I think that no
that's it's a distinction to the notice
catch yeah
yeah so it sounds like you said that you
were you weren't really sure what you
were doing after high school can you
tell us a little bit yeah and anyone
it's like a kinda like an IT course but
I feel like I only really went into an
IT course cuz I think it's like I think
it's this really common if people who
liked games just go into IT even though
I don't have like I don't have like a
whole lot of interest in it sure like
it's just like a I think it's just a
thing that's real common yes
Scott let me just hypothesize with you
for a second so you know if you say that
you finished high school and you felt
pretty directionless that may have been
when you got knocked into the pit but I
think the pit started getting dug way
before that probably does that make
sense so - well tell me a little bit
about like do you remember times in your
life like before you finished high
school where you kind of were rejected
or you dealt with rejection absolutely
yeah through high school because we
moved to this country from I moved from
England when I was pretty young and I've
pretty much always had an issue with
allergies and I have like eczema and
like pretty bad expects me through high
school and I don't know if I was like a
stress through school but it was always
like really really really bad like I'd
go to school like with just bad x-bow of
my face and things like that so I think
I don't know like how would it be
connected I guess it was just like a
when I come I was just excited to come
home and just play games cuz in games I
was felt comfortable well protected from
not having to show my face and things
like that I guess yeah go yeah so let's
take a step back from analyze
so let's just understand so tell me
about when when did you move from the UK
to you're in the US or what I'm in New
Zealand oh your news okay so yeah so
tell me when did you move to New Zealand
how old were you I think I was about 11
okay and what was what do you remember
about growing up in England
um not a whole lot um pretty much like
through England houses school family I
had like two friends in England that I
would like go to the house and things
like that I'm just just off after school
- but what was what was home like for
you when you were growing up um
busy like it was pretty much almost one
parent was working one was home and it
was kind of shifted in and out but my
sister's a big gamer what a mess this is
a big game and the other one stop how
many my dad was a big gamer zone - okay
older younger both older I'm the
youngest okay and what was it like do
you remember what it was like being a
kid with your sisters at no like in
England um I don't have like too many
like crazy memories I guess not -
nothing really like pops out I was like
a distinctive thing were you guys close
um yeah yeah it kind of shifted between
the two of them I was always closer to
one than the other I guess I don't know
why that was but yeah
you said your dad was a gamer yeah yeah
my dad used to play a lot of games where
he's like oh well he passed away last
year
so I'm sorry to hear that yeah but he
got me into like a lot of games like he
got me into like a lot of the RPGs that
I grew up with the kind of fantasy and
stuff like that and I think he also got
me into a while like when we were like
our first computer when we moved here
and had a friend that played while at
school and it was yeah pretty much
started from there what's it like
talking about this um it's okay I kind
of I don't think I was like crazy close
with my dad like just as a whole but
talking about it feels okay I guess I
kind of come to terms of that I think
come to terms with what just his passing
and talking about it as okay I don't
really tell people I don't
I've never really talked people like
one-on-one I'm from like one or two
friends just cuz I don't know I don't
really like I don't know if it's like a
selfish thing but I don't like ten a a
conversation like all on me or like
making people feel uncomfortable because
I know that that kind of thing can make
people feel uncomfortable I guess do you
feel like you're burdening other people
by talking about your dad yeah yeah I
feel like if it's like I don't know I'm
never gonna bring it up unless it's like
topic like the other time I told the
only time I float like one of my really
close friends was because we were going
to another funeral and until then he
didn't know I'm gonna just think a
second okay yeah yeah of course of
course
what's wrong with burdening other people
um I guess I don't want to unnecessarily
cause like I don't want to say like
unhappiness but I don't want to like
unnecessarily a shift a mood of like a
room or something like that so unless
it's like a topical thing I don't really
want to just bring it up
I just I feel like it can like if every
was having a good mood or like
everyone's just like completely contain
or anything like that I don't feel a
need to bring it up I guess do you miss
your dad um yeah from time to time it's
not like good
not particularly um we had like a lot of
arguments - yeah cuz he he was one of
the people like really struggling or
like kind of get her drop on things like
that but I obviously I'd miss him but
it's not like yeah how did he make you
feel when tell about those arguments um
I had shifted from different things like
multiple things like waking up past 12
o'clock because I have to play till like
3 o'clock because that's when the keys
were there I was something like that
we were talking about after high school
um oh no that was recent that was like
pretty much a couple of months before I
passed I guess okay um and then after
high schools kind of just get a job no
get a job no funny thing I guess hmm I'm
trying and then it was get a job
I'm trying what were things like between
you and him during high school um for
the most part they were okay like it was
kind of just yeah there's the haggis
same with it was like the same
relationship I have with my mom which
was like fine good oh yeah was it good
I'd say yeah they're like cuz he was
like a bit of an alcoholic like so
tippy time so it was a little bit shifty
but as a general thing it was good like
I never like resented him or anything
like that
I mean there's a difference between fine
and God
oh yeah of course so I'm hearing from
you is that it was okay yeah yeah pretty
much it was okay like like it sounds bad
to say tolerate but kinda one of the
words that pops up I guess yeah
what were you tolerating um just the
fact that he would come home drunk and
be it would be really uncomfortable like
I'm not very good around drunk people
but I think that might stem from that I
mean how old were you when he would come
home drunk pretty much all the way from
like 14 to like 21 okay do you know any
14-year olds that are quote unquote good
at handling drunk people yeah I guess
not I guess it's not really something
you can just pick up as a skill okay
yeah I mean I'm sorry did they not teach
that to you along with history and
dinosaur I guess I must have missed his
class yeah so so you said 14 what
changed when you were 14 why did he
start coming home drunk then um I guess
that's just kind of like an early
recollection but I guess he would
probably come home around like 11
o'clock and I'd probably be in bed
before that before sweating so I was
kind of early recollection would you say
that you were happy growing up in
England
um content and I really have like too
many memories of England I guess it's
kind of just about it's all here like no
just together kind of a blur I guess
yeah from ginger and everyone else yeah
yeah does anything in particular pop out
in terms of memories you have any strong
memories from before you move to New
Zealand it's a bit like a lot of
football and like a soccer and they
still are quite good so I guess have
memories of that Jam how did it feel I'm
good at football yeah I loved it like
I've always been a very competitive
person so it's like I think that's why
my guy loved games as well sure but yeah
do you still play football not as much
as I'd like to but yeah I'll like your
grandma's like my niece and stuff like
that oh you have a nice yes oh this is
sir
has two kids how old are your kids or
nephew oldest niece oh yeah oldest is
seven I think and nephew is two and a
half I think how's your relationship
with them um pretty good obviously my
nephew like every time I say me six
screaming was happy um
salmon that nice basically what do they
call you uh scat scat scat II I don't
know why the reason I ask is because
kids usually have weird names for yeah
yeah yeah yeah interesting and so what
was life for you after you moved to New
Zealand I don't really know when did you
start um pretty much as soon as I moved
here just because could when he compared
English to New Zealand one of the
biggest things you see a scenery as
trees and I have like real bad hay fever
so it got real bad like I got like a
really bad eyes like why I asked you
like really bloodshot and like puffy and
stuff like that so I was always like
real nervous going to school at first
cuz what were you nervous about
just like appearance like cuz it would
get really bad
x2 I get really bad and then I just like
wouldn't really want to go out because I
felt like I look like a puffy mess
mm-hmm
I can sympathize with the feeling of
puffy mess because I had eczema and I
still have allergies everything's just
swollen yeah yeah puffy mess is actually
a great way to describe it yeah and did
people ever comment about your skin or
your puffiness er um no but I was like
really new to England like when I was in
like like primary school like promise
when I first moved to not really my
double take a couple cases of bullying
through like maybe like 13 or 14 and
then again like mmm
early midway through high school can you
tell me about 13 14 yes it's kind of
this doing school
football and I don't know kind of bad
with that kind of memory stuff I guess
but what do you remember yeah about
being bullied her I just remember like a
couple of moments of being bullied just
like I heard like I'm called alien and
stuff like that which was there yeah
pretty weird but wise cuz the ala do
stuff oh well yeah I don't really have
like too many recollections of them that
but really sure and then what about when
you were a little bit older I had
surgery a few times like cuz I've got I
like pretty bad kidney as well just like
a couple of health issues and I remember
one time I was hospital for quite a
while and I came out and I was a little
bit chunky and next one was bad I just
kind of got belief like oh stuff as well
so kind of status with the mix do you
remember how they made you feel bad that
early yeah I don't really remember like
what they'd say anything like that but
yeah wonderfully avoided like like
certain parts of the school because I
knew people around there hey how can we
add a little bit more color or depth to
the way that they made you feel what do
you mean sorry
so you say they made you feel bad yeah
something more descriptive yeah we don't
have to talk about the scene tell me
about what if you can tell me what the
feeling was like I mean the biggest
things like outcasted I guess play I was
definitely outcast for like a certain
group of people because I don't know
like obviously high school people hang
out in groups do you feel like an
outcast throw out some of the early as a
high school I did and then max but
started getting a little bit better
instead of getting a bit more confidence
and realizing that there was other
people who played Yan's a lot so it was
kind of like his hangover those people
okay but earlier you found your people
you found us yeah exactly yeah yeah I
mean I'm just wondering you know would
you say that because I when I think
about outcasted um you know it's it's an
it's an interesting verb it's not a verb
that I hear very much and you know not
to not to be a little bit too Freudian
for you but I wonder if rejected would
be a similar word yeah yeah yeah yeah it
would be some of them fresh feels the
same way I guess yeah like what feels
the same
just like the usage of the word like
I'll cast it rejected like it's yeah
let me ask you something when you go to
let's say you apply for a job when it's
last time you applied for a job three
weeks ago
okay and have you heard back no dude is
the feeling when you think about that or
when I ask that question even that no is
not a regular no right no the feeling
that you have is that do you does it
does it smell or taste like what used to
feel like when kids would comment about
when they would call you an alien or I
feel like it's a little bit different
because them denied me a job isn't like
a hateful thing like I don't take it
personally sure it's just like a there
was someone better or something else
happened which is like perfectly fine
like is that cool yeah like if I didn't
get the job it means someone else did
which means there's probably someone
there was just more applicable or better
which is okay but like the whole
Highfill comments and I was like that
was like a direct thing that was to me
it's true they feel very different okay
so that that's very helpful for me to
know thank you for sharing that so let
me ask you something you know if
someone's if there was just a better
candidate out there being told no
indirectly yes so it still feels like
I'm not good enough for being rejected I
seem so so so one is not being good
enough one is being persecuted or
attacked yeah yeah exactly yeah do you
remember if there's anything that
happened to you that made you feel not
good enough growing up
um I can't think of anything in
particular
sure can you tell me about what it was
like when your dad would come home drunk
uh hi to my room it's like for the most
part like if I was on the computer like
I knew I would duck away before like
10:30 and it aside to my room play my
phone on something all hot a console cuz
we had a computer like family room
because it was just uncomfortable being
in the same room isn't basically like I
was I couldn't tolerate it like I would
just hide away what made it difficult
for you to tolerate he was obviously
they weren't not themselves when they're
drunk like I I've always just like that
like they'll be a lot louder a lot I
guess just him a particular was like a
lot louder it was asking I don't know
it's like a snare comfortable questions
I don't really remember any in
particular but I just remember I was
feeling very uncomfortable if I was in
the room I guess mm-hmm but can't think
of any super in particular ones I guess
I'm trying to get a sense of so I mean
I'm trying to understand what what it
was that made you uncomfortable like it
makes perfect sense to me that you were
uncomfortable yeah because you know 14
year-olds tend to be uncomfortable
around drunk people yeah what was it
right so some people will be judgmental
yeah I guess that's I guess it can be
things like that like he would like come
in and just like it's just like a little
comment like they'd say oh just like a
little comment like shouldn't you be in
bed why you still playing the games you
play the games too much kind of thing I
guess those kind of things would kind of
just make me think I don't even want to
talk about this I'm just gonna go mm-hmm
so let me ask you something Scott you
know when someone comments something
like that what how do you think that so
if I have you know if I told my kid
shouldn't you be doing this shouldn't
you be doing
how do you do that that that what
emotions do you think that my kid would
be feeling if I ask those kinds of
questions it feels like you're not
matter I want to say like accepting them
from what the they are role what they're
doing I guess sure would you say that it
would make them feel like they're not
good enough yeah yeah is that how your
dad made you feel sometimes yeah like
like when I cuz he was like a big
football player as well
well like loved he was like big into me
play football zone so like when I kind
of stopped because set it overseas like
big day on Wow usually and like just fun
to do stuff like with your school
friends play league with school friends
and stuff like that so like when I
didn't want to go to like all the
trainings and like old matches he wasn't
particularly happy about that
I don't remember like a specific
argument or anything about it but I do
remember like a bit of not
supportiveness
this little word but yeah yeah so I mean
I like it when people use things that
are not real words that actually gets
closer to an authentic oh yeah what that
tells me is that you're feeling
something that you don't have words to
describe but you're trying to create
words to capture the feeling yeah so not
supportiveness so it sounds like there
were kind of two things one is so it
sounds like your dad was pretty
judgmental I'd say so yeah
yeah and and generally speaking I think
one of the effects of being Chuck you
know judgemental is that you make people
feel like they're not good enough
yeah does that make sense yeah is that
is that closer to the way that you feel
in terms of when you apply to a job like
we talked a little bit about bullying
and persecutor yeah might feel the same
it feels it feels a little more closer
to like direct bolt-on
I guess because it's like the two things
kind of correlate with not being good
enough Oh interesting so you're saying
that your dad the the flavor of the
feeling that your dad evoked is actually
similar to bullying oh no it's more
similar to denial of a job oh it's more
so okay yeah I was
because it sounds absolutely better that
bad so have you watched our streams
before yeah look pretty much all of them
okay so do you know where to some scar
is Ike I remember the descriptive word
but I kind of have it in my brain what's
in your brain you I get all of them kind
of mixed up sure like some Scott dama
things like that no problem description
prisoner my best what am i digging for
you get the sense I'm digging a little
bit I'm not sure I'm particular like
what it is exactly that you're digging
before okay I can tell you looking for
something though yeah yeah so let me let
me just be a little bit more transparent
Oh root of the problem sure yeah and
what do you think about that do you
think there is a root I mean I'd say so
it might be like a collective of things
but I'd say yeah what do you think is in
that collective being denied at multiple
things or like yeah not being was to it
rejected there multiple things I guess
that have just led to a whole bunch of
covering myself hooked with like
catching myself up with like a bunch of
like games and stuff like that I guess
sure is there any rejection that you
felt that is particularly painful I
don't really think so I don't think
there was like one in particular that
like you know broke everything yeah but
I'm getting that sense as well yeah so
you know sometimes when when I talked to
people we find sort of like a root of a
problem and we're able to kind of like
notice that and evoke it and then
oftentimes they have a very like
emotional response on the stream is that
something that you're looking for hoping
for not really I also just want to
understand sure I think so I don't what
I'm getting the sense is that just like
you said I don't think you have one
thing I think you've got
a lot of little things yeah and you know
if we think a little bit about tanking
versus healing I think you've got a
couple of things you just think about
this for a second so I think there are a
couple of things going on so the first
is that gaming is sort of the board's
above the pit yeah right but the pit got
there somehow to begin with no so
generally speaking I don't know how else
to describe this but I'd say about 30 to
40 percent of gamers who I've worked
with actually had an alcoholic problem
alcoholic parent I don't know exactly
how that relates and I think it's I also
don't think I mean I don't
did your dad just suddenly develop a
drinking problem when he when you were
14 yeah it's pretty much always like I
remember like situations I family go to
the bar like when I was tough like that
yeah so so I think something changes in
terms of when you have a parent who's an
alcoholic and the way that they relate
to their children and something about
the way that they relate to their kids
makes children less confident and and
now I'm gonna sort of try to explain
kind of academically yep so or let me
actually ask you this how does a child
become confident kind of a question I
guess so don't answer theoretically just
start saying whatever comes to your mind
you're gonna you're gonna have a lot of
wrong answers but I'm sure you know the
right answer and we'll get you there I'd
say just like building confidence within
like success like if I was successful at
school I'd have more confidence like
sure I think I like the phrase building
yeah and and the interesting thing is I
don't think it just comes from success
right so how does like so let me put it
to you this way like in a weird way mmm
you think about how to ask this
so how did you know to go to your room
when your dad came home drunk because it
was an uncomfortable feeling that I
wanted to avoid
Sharik and and in a sense you could say
that going to your room you could be
confident in that strategy does that
make sense yeah like it's a pretty
reliable strategy yeah yeah how does how
does one learn like what's there a
reliable strategy how does one develop
I'm not talking about like confidence
even on the level of like oh I'm a
confident person I'm talking about
generally speaking like the idea of
confidence right so what is confidence
it's it's like taking an action and
being somewhat like confident talkative
the result right like it's being sort of
assured about the result so like where
does that come from like how can you be
confident that going to your room is
like the right thing to do when your dad
comes home drunk I don't know if it
really applies to the whole culture room
thing that I guess trial and error
there's like a good absolutely right so
if we think about it what leads to
better confidence like trying trying
things and then also like consistency of
outcome yeah does that make sense like
if you go to your room and then like he
shows up every now and then and like
drags you downstairs and then what's
gonna be your confidence about going to
your room is a solution lot lower so
confidence oddly enough for children
comes from order does that make sense it
has nothing to do with success of
failure it has to do with order so like
right like a confident child like so you
know like a child becomes confident in
walking when they start to be able to
predict the outcomes of their walking
right does that make sense and they also
like have have confidence and parents
because until they walk like if they
know if okay if I hold hands then I can
be confident that I walk because I'm
unstable on my own but if I'm holding an
adult's hand then I'll be able to walk
fine so can we see how they become
confident in holding an adult's hand
then graduate all the time they become
confident and walking without kids yeah
yeah so what do you think it does for
the order of a child's universe if they
have a parent
that drinks well there's no stability
really like they like it's two different
people right like he comes on one person
is another person in the morning yeah
absolutely so what what does that do for
a child's confidence well they don't
have the consistency so they don't have
the same thing over and over again yeah
Scott do you ever get worried that
you're gonna fall into the sky when you
step outside of your room
that's out of your house that's like a
metaphor I guess no practically don't
worry that you're just gonna fall into
the sky and shoot out into space
I mean I've I guess I never had that
feeling yeah huh so it sounds like in
your world gravity always goes one
direction yeah I guess this is what I've
been told yes I guess you're confident
you're very very confident in the
direction of gravity because it always
goes one right yeah so like what you're
describing to me is that you get gravity
that goes both ways when you're a kid in
terms of your parents right so you have
you have a dad that sometimes he's one
person
so it's like gravity goes in this
direction and then other times gravity
goes in this direction right and like
can you imagine how anxiety-provoking it
would be if we did not know which
direction gravity went yeah do you if I
if gravity sometimes went up and
sometimes went down
how confidently do you think I would
move through life right why because it's
not consistency you don't know what's
gonna happen yeah
so when we think about you in an
alcoholic parent like like tie things
together for me what am I trying to say
oh that I don't like I don't have the
consistency I don't have that
reliability I guess of him being but I
don't know if I'm not seeing the
connection though like I don't sure yeah
yeah so the first thing is in terms of
so if we think about a fear of rejection
right right
so like fear of rejection tends to be
can also be correlated with a lack of
confidence hmm does that make sense yeah
like the confident purse
can handle rejection better in fact the
way that you talked about your job three
weeks ago actually sounds relatively
confident right like people just say
like Oh someone else was better
qualified than I was like it's no
personal insult to you you don't feel
bad about it it's just the way of the
world
yeah is that how you feel about your
last job application I guess so
it's I don't know if it's just like numb
to like the consistency of like being
told no or like not hearing anything or
what it is but sure so it sounds like
it's a little bit complicated a little
bit in the eye towards it yeah so here's
kind of the point that I'm making so
first of all the hole comes from
somewhere so let's actually try to sort
of give us give you a brief summary okay
so if you're addicted to video games
right by the way any questions so far
well I think I'm a fully pretty okay
look at them so I'm gonna try to
summarize okay so you're addicted to
video games so the first thing to
understand is that video games are not a
problem they're a solution what do you
think about that that's a make sense
what makes sense about it the fact that
they're all like it's consistent like
it's always pretty much always gonna be
there if you're not having a good day
you can go home and play games which
means they're a solution like but at the
same time what do you think yeah sorry I
do think you can kind of get addicted to
a solution like if you have something
that's like really consistent and keeps
you happy I think we can still cling to
that feeling absolutely right so this is
also true of other addictions so like is
heroin a problem absolutely is video get
our video games a problem
absolutely is playing wow 22 hours a day
a problem absolutely and there also I
don't want you to think about it just as
an addiction just as a negative thing
but I want you to realize that it is a
solution for your brain because it
solves a problem that you have is a
problem that you have is what play it
too much I know that's so what what is
it tank
what is it tank for you I guess it takes
rejection oh yeah yeah so it sounds like
rejection and failure
main feelings of yours that it tanks
from yep so now we kind of go to so the
first thing that I just want everyone to
understand is that gaming is adaptive
and protective and is actually a
solution to another problem now that
solution can become maladaptive so
maladaptive is like when we do something
and it sort of like works in the
short-term but over time it becomes
maladaptive so it starts to cause
problems even though it was adaptive it
ones that make sense yes I think rather
than solution or problem I like the
phrase adaptive or maladaptive and the
best example of something that's that's
maladaptive that I like to use is so you
know what hypertension or high blood
pressure is yeah so do you have any idea
so if I have a blood vessel in my heart
is pumping and if I have high pressure
in that blood vessel do you know what
has that what the heart has to do you
have any idea like how do you overcome
like if I have a high amount of
resistance and I'm trying to push
something into that resistance what do I
have to do really stress release oh yeah
so releasing the resistance would be one
thing the other thing is that you can
push harder right so actually it's funny
because that's one of the ways that high
blood pressure medications work is they
reduce the resistance but one thing that
you can actually do so like basically
like when you have a high pressure
system so what happens to your for like
arteries and then if I in the job of the
heart is to pump blood into the artery
right and if I clamp down on the artery
what is what does the heart have to do
push through the clem exam so it has to
push harder so the greater the
resistance if I like if I'm lifting
weights and I increase the resistance of
the weight what do I muscles have to do
build up and push through it
exactly and that is exactly what the
heart does so the heart starts to grow
when you have high blood pressure so the
heart just like your biceps are triceps
or pectorals or whatever like anytime a
muscle hits high resistance it grows it
builds up and then the heart gets bigger
and bigger and bigger as it deals with
higher and higher and higher pressure
now the interesting thing about the
heart is that you know there's like
there's a bunch of muscle and you know
that
art is filled with blood so the muscle
needs blood to nourish it right Jo so
you have these like three arteries that
go outside the heart and they feed sort
of the outside of the heart and then
you've got blood on the inside of the
heart so the blood from the inside kind
of feeds the top half of the heart the
blood from the outside feeds the bottom
half of the heart and what do you think
happens if if the heart expands
everything else expands or is there what
happens to the blood flow so like if I'm
getting blood from here and I'm getting
blood from here what happens to the
stuff in the middle not sure it doesn't
get blood right because like there's
blood coming from here and there's blood
coming from here and if I let me put it
to you this way if I have you know if I
pour water on something like let's say a
piece of like let's say a card a piece
of cardboard if I sprinkle a little bit
of water on top and I sprinkle a little
bit of water on the bottom like the
whole cardboard is gonna get wet yeah
okay if I increase the thickness of the
cardboard ten times and I sprinkle a
little bit of water on top sprinkle a
little bit of water on bottom what
happens to the middle of the cardboard
does it get wet still start stays right
exactly so that's exactly what happens
to the heart so as the heart grows so
the heart is trying to adapt to the high
pressure system by growing and then
eventually what happens is it grows so
big that it actually the heart can't get
blood because there's blood coming from
the top and blood coming to the bottom
but the thing is so big the middle the
heart corner quote stays dry just like
you said okay and if it stays dry that
means it doesn't get nourishment and
that starts to die yeah and this is
something called congestive heart
failure so in the same way sorry for
that you know medical analogy that I
compliment you to understand is that
gaming for you was a short-term solution
that has now caused you to become a
different kind of person and that
solution is no longer working right but
what you really need to understand is
that gaming really is a tank for you and
what it's tanking in your case I think
is some sense of good enough or like
being sensitive to rejection a lack of
confidence in who you are so every
rejection hurts so I want you to just
think about this for a second
that like you know if you're confident
in who you are like let's say that I'm
content to Who I am I ask a girl out and
she says no how does that affect me you
might lose some confidence yeah and if I
have no confidence and she says no how
does that affect me I might Shetty
that's what happens every time you you
don't get a yes from a job I'd say
shadows me a little bit but a built some
resistance but yeah yeah right so you
built some resistance to it which is
also very good like it's good that you
notice that that too is sort of an
adaptation and what is your resistance
let's just think about this for a second
how have you become resistant to
shattering because you didn't say the
first feeling will better you said yeah
what is the nature of that resistance
consistency like cuz I mean I've been
doing it for a while now yep so it's
like yeah kind of
I I would venture that you've learned
how to numb yourself from it yeah yes
all right so that too is gonna be
maladaptive so I've asked you a lot of
questions I think it's it's a little bit
difficult for you to access your
feelings mm-hmm what would you say to
that that's that's pretty true yeah
right so like what's up with that I
think it's because you've learned how to
numb yourself from rejection because my
sense is that inside the trap door of
your subconscious there is a whole pile
of like feeling like a shitty human
being yeah yeah and where is that
sensation throughout the day hiding
behind the bridge that is games
absolutely beautifully put right so that
too is like when we try to do when I ask
you someone kind of these exploratory
questions like it's you know you're kind
of like I'm getting shades of gray but
I'm not getting a whole lot of color
like you were to say like okay how did
your dad make you feel like you say
uncomfortable like we're you know that's
you know I I completely agree that he
made you feel uncomfortable but uncommon
so we're sort of like a shallow term
it's not like yeah you know do make
direct oh yeah so did he make you feel
ashamed did he make make you were you
frightened of him were you angry with
him they're all
those kinds of things that kind of fall
under uncomfortable yeah so kind of just
going back to our analogy so like I
think gaming is adaptive right so it
tanks so this is the the floorboards
over the pit and then that pit comes
from somewhere so in your case I'm not
sure exactly where it comes from but so
we sort of hypothesized maybe it comes
from bullying it sounds like it doesn't
come from bullying it sounds like the
feeling that is closer is actually the
feeling that like something around the
way that your dad made you uncomfortable
is that fair or not really I'd say in a
way but I'm not really a hunter sensor
which is sure so what are the yeah yeah
one of the way I think one of the
primary reasons that I really wanted to
come on here and talk to you was
premature so I can get a bit more
understanding off that so I can kind of
at least get a little more knowledge on
what it might be
yeah yes so I think I'm not sure if it's
partially your dad or other things and
we can give this another shot
okay like I know we can continue talking
after at my summary but the first thing
is that gaming isn't adaptive is
adaptive and is actually a solution the
second thing is that it protects you
from the pit but the pit was dug
somewhere else we haven't quite been
able to figure out sounds like it's not
bullying maybe has something to do with
your dad maybe not and that ultimately
your solution is gonna be twofold one is
to try to fill in the pit because if you
can deal with that underlying sense of
rejection or that lack of confidence and
that to your lack of confidence may come
from the disorder of your childhood
right because like that kid like when
you just don't know like it's really
hard to have let me just think about
this for a second like how difficult is
it for a child who has like dr. Jekyll
and mr. Hyde for a panic I'm not sure
the two people I'm sorry like you know
like who's who's another good example of
someone who's got like yeah I'm trying
to think of it because Clark can be
Superman is not really a good example
but
who's a good twitch at help me out hold
on I'm gonna to face your face also ID
idaho yeah hope yeah I don't know Harvey
Dent to face huh you familiar with heart
oh yeah let's go to your face yeah what
what T's Walter White ah nah man Walter
White he just changed from good to bad
it's not it's good so so my point is
like you know you don't know who you're
getting right so you're like it's it's
really confusing when you have a parent
who's loving and kind and supportive but
then like another day it's like gravity
is going up or gravity's going down
that's just [ __ ] hard yeah so so I
think something about your lack of
confidence probably comes from that
that's a so yeah so something about the
whole comes from there and then the
problem is that as you mentioned earlier
like you know when you don't have
confidence and you get rejected it's
shattering and then on top of that when
I when you say like you know what does
rejection do to you in your responses it
shatters me a little bit like that's an
oxymoron if I've ever heard one yeah
even that don't make sense because I
think another adaptive mechanism that
you have is you've learned how to numb
yourself to the pain of being shattered
but I do think you'll get shattered with
every rejection hmm and so I think your
way forward is twofold one is to
understand that gaming is like is
tanking and that at some point like what
you're gonna have to do is stop letting
and you've got to understand that gaming
is gonna be a very good solution but I
think you're actually doing a really
good job if you applied for a job three
weeks ago that's actually really good
and at some point you've got to
understand that like you're gonna be
shattered a little bit more and and not
so much that you get used to the
shattering because that you've already
done but I do think it's possible for
you to how can I say this not get
shattered by a rejection through sort of
intentional growth
right so like instead of like numbing
yourself to those feelings like really
sitting with those feelings
walking through them and like letting
them kind of pass through you because
right now I think what's going on is
each rejection sort of like adds junk to
your inventory and you're not really
like ven during that junk and so
overtime like your subconscious is just
cluttered with all this trash that is
like you know and what you really need
to do is vendor your junk but I don't
think you do that because what you
essentially do is you close the bag and
that's your numbness you just close your
inventory you're like [ __ ] this is such
a mess and you just closed the inventory
and then you keep on trying to live life
and then you don't have any like room
for good [ __ ] in there because all the
bad [ __ ] is filling up your subconscious
subconscious actually works but like
that by the way if it's filled with a
bad [ __ ] there actually isn't room for
good [ __ ] good stuff yeah and and so I
think you've got to open up your bags
and vendor some of that [ __ ] so some of
that can be through you know we can try
to talk a little bit further after this
if you feel like it we can you can see a
therapist or something like that have
you ever tried to see a therapist I have
once yeah but didn't okay so that's
something worth kind of reconsidering
the other thing is is you know we have
to try to fill in that pit so we have to
figure out like where did this lack of
confidence in this sensitivity to
rejection come from I mean I think the
eczema honestly sounds like that would
make someone pretty [ __ ] sensitive or
rejection you know to be like judged for
like your face and someone call you an
alien because your eyes are probably
like that sounds like it's a pretty bad
[ __ ] rejection yeah
appreciating and and so it you know it
strikes me as a little bit odd that you
feel like the the feeling is actually
different but I'm gonna respect that I'm
gonna assume you're right because I
think it if you feel like it's not the
same it's not the same you may have more
than one kind of rejection sensitive
sensitivity one of them does feel to me
it makes sense though because you said
one of them feels like a lot more
persecutory and then the other one the
other sort of like you know the job
application thing doesn't feel like it's
a personal insult it feels like you're a
cog in the wheel and you're just getting
railroaded by the system yeah and so I
wonder if
you've if you know there's been a time
in your life where you felt like you got
railroaded by the system that possibly
yeah I'd say it could be a thing or no
I'd say it could be yeah yeah I mean so
so what do you think about this kind of
so one strategy is to like kind of
change a little bit like recognize that
gaming is actually gonna be doing a lot
of important stuff for your brain and to
try to catch those moments and to try to
like actually expose yourself to a
little bit more negative emotion so
that's one option
second option is you have to figure out
whether the source of this rejection
sensitivity comes from and try to you
know cleanse that debuff right I'd say
probably just like expose myself to a
little bit it's probably like a bit of a
better bet for me I think okay so I
think that's something I'll try it's
just yeah just scary what's scary about
it
well expose myself to kind of like the
negativity and things like that yeah you
wanna try that here like right like
explain oh yeah I mean do you want to
try it here yeah okay so close your eyes
sit up straight okay we're gonna try it
a different way so when was the last
time that a rejection really hurt so it
sounds like this last one wasn't that
bad yeah this one that says around come
around three months ago I got a job
interview and it felt like it went well
and I said I was something like get in
touch with him and I mean I was quite
excited for the job like I thought it
was something that I could do they're
sort of like helped me keep like healthy
and on my feet and things like that and
obviously I thought it went well
like the interview it was like really
nice and things like that and I just
didn't hear anything and it was just a
fact that like I didn't get a no that I
just kind of like kept lingering and it
just felt like as each day went past
like that's thinking just that got worse
and worse and worse okay so do something
that was successful definitely in the
chest like it's just
the feeling of thinking that something
was gonna start doing well and then it
wasn't like you get on a high
temporarily and then you just like
gradually feel this one consistently so
so it kind of feels like you know an
elevation followed by like a depression
you know like every disappointment yeah
interesting
have you had that feeling before like
that that kind of excitement in your
chest followed by kind of like this
thing yeah yeah yeah I've heard quite a
bit can you tell me about a couple of
times
one of the ones was like a test from
school okay so do you like drama and
things like that the girl like acting I
thought I'd do well and I'm like it's
pretty much that kind of situations
right like I kind of myself up for that
and I did well and I didn't like
misguiding myself and then one of the
situation was pretty much similar to the
last job one where I thought I did
really well everyone ended up like I
actually had got a call for that one and
thought they were just gonna say let's
start on Tuesday whatever and they were
just like they remember like like the
shadow like the feeling of just like
nothing pretty much like second like a
quick sudden sink like like a movie is
when they just like fall through water
yeah
first like that why are you I think um I
don't know I think it's a coping
mechanism at have what are you feeling
right now
um I don't think it's like embarrassment
it's just it is a little bit
uncomfortable like talking about this
stuff but I think that's weird even so I
want to suffer I'm not really sure I
think it's kind of yeah I just focus so
tell me what it feels like it just feels
yeah quite shallow on my chest like
can't really tell where like the
surfaces I just cry feels I got a little
bit empty okay I want you to just focus
in on that feeling
the shallowness of your chest the
emptiness of your chest
and now what's happening to the feeling
it's kind of soothing over a little bit
yeah it's kind of interesting you can
even see it you can see the change come
over you try to feel it soothing over it
what does that mean
it's like um I got like a visual thing
of like I'm that like soothing the
cement of a bricks and they like
building so okay so you're kind of
you're kind of helping it out it's yeah
yeah so let me ask you something is
there a particular time where you felt
that feeling of kind of shallowness or
emptiness pretty profoundly
[Music]
can't think of like any other like
really specific situations okay
how did you feel when your dad passed
away um yeah my yeah definitely felt the
big sink like yeah it was kind of like a
mixture of like panic and the shallow
sinking feeling like being sent like the
thud what what about what about that
situation what was it were their
thoughts that came with the shallow
sinking feeling in the thud yeah cuz cuz
my mom give another call back I'm just
like hear their distress and it just hit
my cone I really capture the feeling at
the moment but yeah just like a big sink
so fell very frantic like I want to be
there but did you have I mean I think
it's you know any parent passing away is
very very difficult is there something
in the same flavor or color as what
we've been talking about with your dad
passing away the I mean this the sinking
feeling of that is quite similar to when
I got the phone call for the not getting
the job but obviously on a much grander
scale sure of course and and well so did
that when your dad passed away did you
feel like I mean does that feel like I
know it's gonna sound like a weird work
but I'm asking you literally in your
body does it feel like a rejection yeah
what do you think it was it that got
rejected
and the losing the opportunity to show
that I can do better mmm yes that's kind
of interesting I mean oddly enough Scott
I think that is the statement that
you've made that feels the most full
circle to me because I had kind of
written down on my paper that there was
fear of rejection and what you're really
wanting to do is like make people proud
did you want to make your dad proud yeah
why is he
I'd said certain things I guess but as a
whole I probably could have done better
but yeah not sure do you feel like you
screwed up out of it yeah
now help me understand when you say a
little bit does that actually mean
focus yeah because there could be other
feelings there right so so yeah because
it's completely reasonable for you to
think that you didn't screw up that big
because you know yeah who do you who do
you feel like you've let down primarily
him because like I know that I could
have done better and it's just not
living up to the potential that I like I
think I have inside me mm-hmm
so now I'm gonna ask you a question
Scott when you get rejected I think that
there there there are two parts of you I
think there's a part of you that feels
like you have the potential to do great
things in a weird way and now I'm gonna
be a little bit Freudian okay so you
have to forgive me a little bit if this
is just this would just be complete
[ __ ] so I want I want you to imagine
that there are two versions of your dad
right the one who's not drunk and the
one who's drunk and then each of those
versions in turn creates two versions of
you yeah there's the dad who taught you
how to play football who played Final
Fantasy with you there's that guy and so
then there's also two Scott's there's
the Scott who's confident in himself and
knows he has potential and then there's
another Scott who is kind of unsure
about what he's worth does that make
sense yeah it does
and then I think that what what maybe is
very scary for you is that you're not
sure which of those Scott's is real and
every time you get rejected maybe it
terrifies you a little bit that the one
who's a failure is actually
the real Scott yeah
it's yes that's pretty accurate
yeah so I'm gonna just I just want you
to sit with that thought for a second
okay I want you to try to how can I say
this do you know how those two Scots
feel different what their experience of
them is or their experience of you
because sometimes you're one Scott and
sometimes you're the other Scott yes
because I mean I guess I have moments of
like confidence when I think I've done
like if I thought after the interviews
for example something like that mm-hmm
so I guess that was that like an example
of one Scott the other is the other
maybe or and I think what's what's
really scary is that you start to
believe that you're the successful Scott
and then life shows you that actually
that Scott is false and you're actually
a piece of [ __ ] yeah is that how it
feels yeah and I think that the sinking
feeling is probably the transition like
the noticing moment so your road forward
so right now which Scott do you feel
like the piece of [ __ ] okay and is there
what does that feel like
disappointing okay physically an
emotional yeah physically how does it
feel
I'm not good like I don't know how to
explain it physically I guess um it's
something that you feel in a part of
your body or your entire body
pretty much the entire body I don't
think it resides in one place it it it's
pervasive right yeah I want you to
breathe into your body and then exhale
so as you breathe in I want you to
imagine vitality coming in and it's
suffusing you you can feel that breath
throughout your entire body and all of
the sense of disappointment and and
failure that / that has just fills up
every single cell in your body is
getting jostled by that vitality and as
you breathe out I want you to like
squeeze that negativity out of you like
you're twisting a wet rag you're
bringing in so imagine that you're like
a rag that's full of dirty water and
then you add clean water to it with each
breath and then you wring it out so a
lot of dirt leaves but there's still a
lot of dirt that remains and so which
eat with each breath you're adding more
clean water and with each cycle with
each exhalation you're wringing out more
dirt good now transition to the nose
the hard for us
good
what are you feeling
cleaner good
so I want you to do three more breaths
like that and then let your breathing
return to normal
good and now Scott I want you to listen
so I want you to understand that
successful Scott and failure Scott are
both false that fundamentally you're not
dirty water and you're not clean water
that's like successful Scott and failure
Scott what you actually are is the rack
that's the real you in in order for you
to really move past this what you really
need to let go is not just the sense of
disappointment the sense of
disappointment is something that you buy
yourself when you have the what
confluence or absolutely is bizarre as
that sounds right so this is the really
really tricky thing is that when you
have the expectation or hope or
confidence for success that's just
that's like the casting bar for the
actual spell of disappointment you're
building it up with the confidence and
then when your spell cast finishes
you're gonna launch that fireball or
frost bolt or whatever right and so what
you really need to do is take a step
back from both of those things
and just try to be like so so take a
snapshot like how do you feel right now
um a lot more tranquil yes are you
successful right now I mean more so than
I was like an hour ago
okay I feel more like I understand the
situation a little more so I agree with
you that you understand the situation
are you successful no good are you a
failure yes
a little bit a little bit okay but less
so than before right yeah yeah you feel
like a failure in this moment yes okay
so I want you to try to notice that that
feeling of failure is not actually you
but is something that fills your cells
does that make sense
it does yeah so it's like you still have
a bunch of crap that you need to vendor
we're not gonna cure you yet it's not
like you can just click one button and
sell all your trash but I want you to
notice what has changed in you so you've
you've shed a little bit of failure but
you have not gained a little bit of
success does that make sense more for
space for success though sure but what I
really want you to notice is that so far
you have thought that when you reduce
failure success comes it's a seesaw
right right but you're not actually any
more successful you've just stepped off
of the seesaw a little bit so it has
less up and down and and the more that
you can understand like the more you can
become closer to what you are now and I
see that you know you still feel the
failure you're pretty profoundly so I
think you've got to do this kind of
practice like this visualization of like
wringing out the dirt that's relieved
you've got to do I think the better off
you're gonna feel right and when it
comes to applying for a job it sounds
like you apply for how many jobs per
month mm-hmm two three yeah so I think
that this is where what you need you
also need to do is each one of those
what happens is like you enter the cycle
of success or failure with each job that
you apply to does that make it sup does
that make sense so actually what you
need to do is if you're gonna apply for
three jobs a month so be it but apply to
them all at the same time we're good
what do you think that's gonna do it's
I feel like it if it does it all at once
it just I don't know what like the
actual feeling would be but did you feel
a little more relieving I guess yeah why
I don't know if it like gets it out of
the way or if I if I get the surge of
positivity or what I hope it does for
you is it deep personalizes the process
this is the other really really really
big thing you need to do Scott you need
to deep personalize this process of
finding a job right now your value as a
human being is tied to a particular job
what job outcome does that make sense
your value is a person that is
determined by whether you get the job or
you don't get the job as you apply for
more jobs in a shorter period of time
you become uncoupled from the job
process right so practically I think
it'll be better for you to apply to more
jobs faster okay now tell me what's
what's happening to the shallowness or
emptiness in your chest how's that doing
it feels pretty patched up or like
soothed over I guess okay
now good so I think you just did a
little bit you just cast a you know a
flash heal yeah you can open your eyes
whenever you're ready good I'm glad
you're feeling a little bit better and
he has been helpful not helpful yeah
it's official
yeah no official for sure why it gave me
more realization of make it's not a sale
of the root of the problem but like the
the cause I guess like the the multiple
things and maybe identify those a bit
better which is good because I think and
I can learn from that identified that
Patrick's for that's so Scott I think
you do a fabulous job of explaining when
you think you do a bad job that I have
understand like the one I actually feel
about like success and things like that
I feel like I need to just do things
rather than think about the mom well I
want them of it yeah I feel like that's
one thing that like games have helped a
lot with it's just it helps the ball
went out of it
yes it helps you what like mellow it out
sure yeah oh what's a hot yeah so so I
think that that's actually really good
so I think when you say mellowed out so
I think another way that I would
describe that is like depersonalization
yeah right yeah so so like we you need
to like I was saying earlier remove
yourself from the equation and much like
your questing and Wow like like when
you're when you're doing stranglethorn
Vale is that right we're doing
stranglethorn Vale like do you do you
take one quest at a time and go out and
do it may I get multiple did I area it's
more efficient job-seeking process yeah
you're more efficient if I do the
Milan's yeah absolutely right so this is
the last crazy thing I'll leave with you
is I think you can actually learn a lot
from video games I think that that a lot
of the gamers that I work with when I
actually help I feel like I'm sort of
I've Unleashed them into some
environments like I've set them up with
things like internships and things like
that in the past sometimes you have
startups and even at places like there's
a really good University in Boston
called Massachusetts Institute of
Technology and my favorite thing to do
with gamers that I work with in Boston
is to set them up at MIT or in mi t--'s
incubator which is like their
entrepreneurship sort of thing so you'll
get like PhD students at MIT and then if
I stick a gamer who has no job
experience if I just drop them in one of
those internships they actually do a
phenomenal job so I think a lot of
they're they're very analytical thinking
and a lot of the way that they
solving stuff is actually very very
helpful the other interesting thing is
that there tend to be very very
dedicated so I know you grind Wow for 18
or 20 hours a day I've dropped people in
internships who will work for 20 hours a
day and they absolutely love it and they
do a phenomenal job so I think that you
can absolutely learn things from world
of warcraft you can learn how to be
efficient you can learn how to you know
you can you can learn a lot and overall
you know Scott I really do wish you the
best of luck I'm kind of I'm satisfied
with where we are how do you feel as a
satisfied as a good word for it I feel
ya satisfied like I liked this
experiment solo you use the word a lot
help me understand that
I this will feel me like this will help
me a lot like it with the whole I plan
for a lot at once makes a lot more sense
when I visualize it in like a different
light which is one thing I always kind
of had trouble with just like yeah yeah
that's it's yeah very very satisfying
good I'm glad so I think that one of the
things I'm noticing about you is I don't
think you have a whole lot of emotional
expression which I think has to do with
some of your numbness so it's you're
saying a lot but you look basically the
same as when I first saw you true
so it's hard for me to gauge what your
response has been without words because
usually yes I think in some ways I think
you really are kind of emotionally like
pretty um yeah like pretty like your
your emotional like wave length is
actually pretty flat right so like your
emotion has been like this and and so
it's useful I mean it's helpful for me
to hear that this has been helpful and I
you know I really hope it has been
helpful you know keep us posted on how
you're doing and any questions before we
wrap up for the day no think I'm pretty
good it was a raisin thank you so much
you're very welcome and good luck dude
Ches every door
okay so emotions don't help you grind
wow that's that's why you that's why you
get rid of a man who needs emotions when
you're grinding Wow so let me ask you
guys a quick question did y'all follow
that meditation I guess I should have oh
yeah so people are asking did he have
some amount of alexithymia he had a ton
of alexithymia
okay
so yes no kinda okay um let me just
think okay so let's just do a little bit
of Nardi should be let's do some
alternate nostril breathing okay so I
should have you're a sociopath how do
you gain empathy I'm not sure that
you're a sociopath I think just because
you have a lack of empathy or emotional
numbness doesn't mean you're a sociopath
so not feeling things doesn't
necessarily
that's a symptom that's not a diagnosis
right so diagnosis is sociopathy but
there are all kinds of other reasons why
you may not have empathy burnout
alexithymia all kinds of things okay so
Nardi should be okay or nadi shodhana so
this is alternate nostril breathing so
we'll do this again so I want you guys
to do this
okay actually I I there's a good
question here so I'm gonna expand on it
a little bit so someone asks can you
expand on the alcoholic parents and
gaming addiction thing yeah so like so I
starting in 2015 I started working with
gamers right so that was about five
years ago now one of the most surprising
things that I discovered was that like
about 30% of the gamers that I've worked
with over maybe like 200 or 300 or 400
be gamers that sounds kind of high
probably lower than that but of the ones
that I worked with individually which
was maybe like a hundred or two hundred
I'd say like a third of whom had
actually alcoholic parents or one parent
who was alcoholic and I was just very
very surprised because I had always
thought of gaming addiction as like an
individual dopamine kind of thing like
you know it's about the dopamine in your
brain and stuff like that it really has
nothing to do with you know having
alcoholic parents so there are two or
three hypotheses one is that you know if
you're prone to addiction in your brain
whether it be alcohol or another
substance may be the vulnerable the
biological vulnerability to alcohol in
some way translates to a biological
vulnerability to video game addiction
right so this some people say they have
a corner quote addictive personality I
don't really quite buy that sort of
sense but I think it's complicated so
one option is that there's a biological
predisposition that is genetically
inherited to be addicted from one
substance to be addicted to another
substance now I don't really hold too
much to that theory because what we do
know from genetic inherent your
inheritance is that like being addicted
to alcoholic so if you have a
predisposition for alcoholism it doesn't
necessarily mean that you're gonna get
addicted to heroin so like addiction is
substance specific so you have
alcoholism that runs in families and you
have like opiate addiction that runs in
families and that people also have a
quarter unquote drug of choice so the
question is why do people have a drug of
choice like biologically why is it that
some people get addicted to alcohol and
some people get addicted to opiates and
some people get addicted to marijuana
some people get addicted to math like
why do people get addicted to differ
things why aren't substances like just
more or less addictive you know and so
the individuality it turns out is born
in in neuroscience
so are you forea like what which
substance creates a sense of euphoria in
our brain is actually like dependent on
our biology so some people like our
brain sort of lights up like a Christmas
trees with some people with alcohol some
people with opiates some people with
marijuana some people with
methamphetamine some people with video
games some people with other things so
there is a biological component but that
they they seem to be specific to the
substance so what I believe so that is
kind of like a counter-argument to like
a genetic predisposition from alcohol to
video game addiction what I think makes
a lot more sense there may be some
component fact there probably is but
what I think is a lot more accurate is
when I talk to people they actually have
this pattern quite commonly which is
that they just fundamentally are like
not confident in the person that they
are and you can kind of like with many
people I'll sort of dig into things like
bullying and stuff like that but like I
mean everyone [ __ ] gets bullied come
on like most people get bullied and not
everyone turns into a video game addict
or at least not of this severity so the
question is like why do you turn into a
video game addict in my sense is that
you know the the you need a bigger tank
for like a bigger boss and the bigger
your pit is the more planks that you
need to cover it and so people who get
very very addicted to video games have
actually like a bigger pit or they're
dealing with like more and more
uncertainty and if you think about it
what is it what does the video game give
you it gives you certainty like WoW is
the why do [ __ ] people why do people
play Wow over and over and over and over
again it's because it's the same damn
thing every single time there's no
uncertainty so you can be confident in
what happens with Wow
but that's the way the game is designed
it's like you're great you can be
confident in what happens and so I think
that this issue of lack of confidence
about how the way the world works is
very common with gamers and so
uncertainty becomes very very like
damaging to them and what do I mean by
that
there are a lot of people who like let
me just give you an example of how
uncertainty is completely unacceptable
for gamers if there's gamers will avoid
doing anything unless they're sure it's
going to help them just think about this
for a second I'm not gonna apply to a
[ __ ] job unless I know I'm gonna get
it I'm not gonna apply to school unless
I know I'm gonna get in I'm not gonna
ask someone out unless I know they say
yes so just think about that you have an
aversion and most people are not like
that
right like most people like basically
understand that not everything is gonna
work out for you so the question is why
are gamers so averse to uncertainty and
I think it's because some of them grow
up in an environment where like there's
very little order and so you learn how
to like get really scared of like
disorder and you start gravitating
towards like order any place that you
can find it and what a video game really
gives you is like order because in a
game you know what you're gonna get and
the thing that paralyzes gamers so much
from moving forward is a lack a sense of
uncertainty about what the outcome is so
they would rather
you
see this is what happens every time
is this working okay so every time I say
something profound either discord cuts
out or twitch stop streaming or I knock
out yeah so let me explain something to
you gamers would rather how can I say
they would how can I say this they would
rather spend they would rather waste all
of their hours how can I say this you're
completely fine wasting time playing
video games with a 0% chance of success
you'd rather do that then have a 50%
chance of success and waste time doing
something that like may not work out
right like gamers are more comfortable
with a 0% chance of success than they
are with like a 50% chance of success
it's [ __ ] weird it's bizarre right
you would rather waste your time playing
video games all day long rather than
waste your time on an application that
may not work out you would rather give
yourself a 0% chance of success and
waste your life rather than do something
that may lead to success but you're not
gonna choose that you [ __ ] hate it
it's bizarre you think that human beings
would choose the thing that leads to the
greatest probabilistic chance of success
which is that apply to a lot of things
but bizarrely that's not how we work
we're like no screw that if there's a
chance it's not gonna work I'd rather
not do it at all and I'm gonna waste all
my time over here and said give me as
give me a hundred percent chance for
zero success as opposed to a 50% chance
for 50% success that's what I'm trying
to say it's a weird mathematical formula
but that's what I've observed right it's
bizarre and I don't know where exactly
this comes from but I think it has
something to do fundamentally with the
way that we're wired and I think that
has something fundamentally to do with
the way that we're raised
so we're taught to be like very very
scared of disorder from a young age and
if you think about what conf
the definition of confidence is being
able to face uncertainty right that's
what confidence is
gamers are not interested in confidence
that you guys don't want confidence what
you want is guarantees and we sometimes
we conflate those two right we say that
like a guarantee like no guarantees and
confidence our opposite ends of the
spectrum the more guarantees you have
the less confident you need to be and so
like this is really bizarre but you guys
actually don't want confidence you don't
look for confidence you want a scenario
where confidence is unnecessary that's
what you look for and that's what
paralyzes you because fundamentally
that's not possible
newsflash the world is full of
uncertainty but here comes [ __ ] video
games and they come to your brain and
they're like hey brain you guys don't
need to deal with uncertainty you can
get progress in accomplishment if you do
this you can come to me and you can play
every single day and you can get
progress progress and accomplishment and
pride in a sense of growth without
dealing with any of that uncertainty and
then your brain is like well [ __ ] I'm
not going to deal with uncertainty like
screw that let me let me get everything
that I need with a guarantee like I'll
take the guarantee over the uncertainty
any day of the week and that's that's
what I think is going on so I think that
what you guys really need to do is
understand that like the life if you
want to move forward in life which you
should really do is embrace uncertainty
that uncertainty is like is how you get
you move forward so I think a lot of my
my success has been through actually
choosing the uncertain path over the
certain path it's walking away from
opportunities not taking them so when I
have like a set job to you know be a
clinician it at Harvard Medical School
they're gonna give me that job and it's
gonna be a great job and then you walk
away and if I if I hadn't walked away
from that job I mean I'm still clinical
faculty so I still teach but if I hadn't
walked away from the job healthy gamer
would wouldn't exist today because I
wouldn't have had time because I would
have been an employee with a boss
so walking away from great opportunities
and facing uncertainty I think is a
wonderful way to move forward in life
but you've got to understand that like
it's gonna be a [ __ ] show like I didn't
know that healthy game was gonna happen
right so like you not you're not gonna
know and this is the other crazy thing
is that you guys try to create so many
expectations about what you want your
life to be that you guys don't even
grasp that your brain does not even know
what you're capable of think about that
for a second when you think about what
your future can hold you are such a poor
judge for like what you're capable of
because you have so little experience in
the real world and this is the big
problem is you guys all lent aim way too
low like I'm telling you guys I will
take a 26 year old who has never had a
job in his life and I will drop him in
an MIT startup and he will do phenomenal
with no work experience he'll just learn
he'll like he'll go on wiki and like
he'll go on Wikipedia and he'll like
learn how to code and he'll learn how to
problem solve and he'll learn Stata and
statistics because that's what you guys
do right like if you look at scott scott
plays Wow for 20 hours a day he knows
the game in and out and and like if if
you guys get challenged and you stop
caring about like guarantees of success
and you can just abandon all that crap
and this is what I was telling Scott is
like in terms of the dirty water and the
clean water you guys are so concerned
about success and failure you guys are
neither of those things
you're the rag if you just abandoned the
idea of success and failure and you just
do something it's the results have like
almost always been amazing I haven't I
haven't been just I've been I mean
people haven't some people haven't done
well but I haven't been disappointed in
them even if they don't do well so
anyway it is difficult to find something
you actually enjoy doing though yes I
completely agree it is difficult to find
something that you actually enjoy the
problem is that most people don't their
search for things that they enjoy
happens up here
instead of with their hands you guys
when you think about when you find you
don't find what you enjoy you think
about what you may enjoy and you let
that control whether you act think about
it for a second where do you make the
determination about what you are going
to enjoy do you make it up here or do
you make it in the outside world and how
good of a judge is this depending on
what you're gonna enjoy think about it
right so this is exactly what I'm saying
you guys in terms of the solution space
that you create for yourself it is so
narrow because you guys have no idea
what you enjoy you have no clue because
you guys don't do anything you live in
here and that's not just a bad I mean
like in this case it's a bad thing but
this is what I'm telling you guys you
guys have spent so much time living in
here that like we live in a world where
like this working really well is
actually the most important part of your
success in the real world this and so if
you actually find yourself in a job that
you enjoy this [ __ ] is levelled up so
much that you guys are gonna do an
amazing job because you've leveled this
up the problem is this can't fix
everything so you just need to level up
your like IRL skills a little bit and
then unleash that's really the best word
that I can think of I feel like I'm
unleashing gamers into like certain
areas it's like they're like a [ __ ]
tornado and they just own it
one last story I'll share with you guys
okay I was taking a class called
value-based healthcare at Harvard
Business School so this is a class where
there were a hundred or so physicians
throughout the Harvard Medical School
training program who took a class so
Harvard and E Harvard and E Harvard and
E and I'm using that reason that this
phrase for reason right at HBS so these
are a bunch of [ __ ] try-hards who are
very accomplished and we had an
assignment the assignment was optimize
patient flow through a urology clinic so
urology is is like the subspecialty of
medicine that deals with the genital
tract and also like yeah
the euro general detract sorry not
general trying but you're a general so
it's like you're in stuff like bladder
urethra all that kind of stuff they also
deal with like a rectal dysfunction and
stuff like that and so like they have
some procedures right so that sometimes
they have to like inject dyes and take
x-rays and stuff like that so patients
that come to your all adji clinic and
it's like kind of complicated it's not
like psychiatry will you come and you
just talk to someone then you leave you
have to like get prepped by a nurse the
the doctor has to do a procedure
some people need procedures some people
don't need procedures some people need
perhaps some people don't need prep so
it's like a complicated situation where
you don't know what the patient's needs
are so you don't know how many like how
many nurses do you need how many doctors
do you need how many rooms do you need
how many rooms with equipment do you
need how many like offices do you need
with four just consultations where you
talk about medications it's kind of
complicated
so that our task was to optimize
optimize flow through urology clinic so
I I log on to discord and I turn to a
couple of buddies of mine who are all
meet I'm like hey guys I have this task
like do you guys want to help me try to
figure this out I send them the case
it's like a case study so they work on
the case and they come back with
solutions they're like oh you should do
this this and this this is what I think
you should migrate next day I go to
class or next week I go to class and
then you know the professor's like what
are you so what do you guys think you
should do to optimize flow and then I
have my plagiarized answers from my
buddies on disk or I raised my hand and
I say I think we should do this this and
this for us is like fantastic those are
all wonderful ideas like I'm telling you
guys crazy right so what gamers are good
at is if you give you if you give them a
system and you tell them to optimize the
system they're good at that because
think about what you've changed what
you've trained yourself to do you
optimize Wow
you optimize fortnight you optimize
League of Legends you optimize dota you
optimize Final Fantasy Tactics you
optimize all kinds of stuff you guys are
great at optimizing and all you have to
do is just like like go like do you guys
realize like how bad people aren't
optimizing things in the real world like
people do stupid stuff all the time
which it's just mind-numbing lead um and
it feels my numbing lead um to me
because I'm an optimizer like y'all you
guys know what min maxing in D&D is like
we're good at min max you guys are good
at min maxing you're gonna be good at
like other stuff in the real world too
you just need the social skills and you
need to like apply for the job
to where people don't think you're an
[ __ ] when you tell them that you're
doing something dumb and you can
actually help a lot of people because
most people don't think like we do so
games train us to think in terms of
efficiency most people do one side quest
at a time they actually don't batch
they're side quests and do like a
circuit of stranglethorn Vail it's not
how they live life right and you have
like whole degrees and stuff that are
devoted to like fixing operations and
like streamlining operations and stuff
like that and I'm not saying that you
guys are as good as formal education but
you'd be surprised so I took a guy that
I was working with and hopefully he's
not watching but I told him that I
wanted to do economic analysis on
eSports so I told him that I want to
publish a paper about which eSports are
the most lucrative and which eSports are
the hardest to break into guys he's
never done anything like this before I
show him some data and I'm like hey like
this is how like do you know how to use
Excel he's like sort of and I'm like oh
okay like so this is what you do and
this is how you run the analysis here's
here's the analysis for one sport I want
you to take this and do nine other
eSports he's like okay and sure enough
he does a great job so don't
underestimate what you're capable of I
mean you guys do but that's just because
you just don't you don't I mean of
course you're gonna underestimate what
you're capable of because you have no
experience so your estimation is gonna
suck so go and get get yourself out
there try something and and just try
something you'll be amazed at where
you're capable I mean you just [ __ ]
try the other thing is that like Scott's
applying for one job every two weeks
like that's not how you get a job you
got to apply for like a hundred jobs
over the course of three months that's
how you got a job and then the other
problem is like you guys are applying
for one job every two weeks so like the
likelihood that you're gonna get a job
that you enjoy is gonna be low because
you only have one option so you guys are
concerned I say you guys I mean it
sounds like a [ __ ] boomer talking to
you yeah so just think about this for a
second a lot of gamers feel like they
need to find a job you guys don't need
to find a job finally job is dumb I
don't think you should find a job I
think you should find five jobs and then
I think you should pick
the best one but that's not the way that
you think and that's not the way that
you act you guys are so concerned about
finding a job that you do them yourself
to finding a shitty one
you should get five jobs you should
increase the number of places you apply
by a hundred and then you should be
selective about what you want you guys
think that life is not giving you
anything so you're willing to take the
table scraps from your shitty efforts
and instead like put forth some effort
and then get something that you enjoy
doing it's actually doable it's not that
crazy
but that's just not how we think like
apply for weight like you guys get this
your problem is not you need a job your
problem is like you should get like 30
offers of acceptance and then the other
problem that you guys make is when you
get a job what do you stop doing you
stop applying that's dumb that's just so
dumb why would you stop applying for
jobs just because you have one you're
completely missing the point you don't
know what you're gonna like two weeks
from now sorry I mean I'm not it like
I'm the same I was the same way so this
is the way that I think now it's like
just pause and think about this right so
like don't accept how can I say this
don't accept the walk through that the
boomer generation has given you create
your own walk through because the walk
through from the boomer generation which
is they say hey kid you don't have a job
you need a job that walkthrough doesn't
work for us that's why the world is like
that's why everything is [ __ ] because
the Boomers gave us a walkthrough and
they're like this is how you be
successful in life that walkthrough
doesn't work anymore
we've got to come up with our own
solutions and our own solutions are
gonna be different and we don't have to
work hard like their walkthrough is like
work hard and you'll be successful in
life that's a dumb
that's a dumb walk through don't do that
I'm lazy
you guys are lazy that's fine like the
solution is not apply for one job get
one job and then work your ass up to
manage
position even though you don't like it
what I'm saying is front-load your work
so you can be a lazy [ __ ] down the
road find the job in IT where your
bosses don't understand what you do
where they don't understand like that
you can write a script to do your job
for you and you can sit there in the
back and just like run your script to
automate things like people don't
understand that you can run scripts to
do things they think that like the stuff
has to be done manually like data entry
that gets done manually right and then
like the cool thing about that is once
you realize like I want you guys to try
to optimize and maximize your laziness
all you guys sorry for saying all you
guys all you guys are like oh I'm so
lazy I'm so undisciplined like yeah so
don't try to change don't try to be
something that you're not this is were
the Eastern philosophy or Eastern
philosophy me what you are Oh be present
accept accept who you are Oh
enlightenment Yoga Buddha Oh
Oh be where you are you guys need to
really listen to that for a second it's
not for yoga hippies it's for you what
that means is be lazy be lazy try to be
the laziest person that you can but make
it work for you don't try to be don't
don't look don't do the boomer
walkthrough don't do the boomer
walkthrough don't work hard that's not
the way you become successful the way
you become successful is by adding value
not adding effort think about this for a
second okay what is value how do we
define value does anybody know what is
the mathematical definition of value how
do you define value no incorrect value
equals value incorrect isn't value an
effort the same absolutely incorrect
value is the result it is it's on one
side of the equal sign what is on the
other side of the equal sign work
divided by time incorrect output minus
input sort of value equals time no no
see this is the basic problem yeah so so
one i'm see couple people get it effort
over time sort of you guys are getting
closer I'll tell you so value equals
yield divided by effort right high value
things give you a lot of stuff for a
little investment that's the definition
of value so like if we think about like
a high value pair of shoes gives me a
lot of walked miles divided by the cost
of the shoes just think about that for a
second value so high value in health
care so there's like this value base to
healthcare delivery course that I was
telling you guys about what does have
value in health care is like amount of
sickness improved divided by cost of
delivering care do you guys get that so
it's like yield divided by cost and so
if you guys want to have high value what
that means is that your effort can be
low that's the goal so if you guys are
lazy that's perfectly acceptable
optimize that in fact all of health care
in the u.s. right now is trying to
become lazier they're trying to reduce
the cost or the effort that you put in
and get more out of the like clinical
outcomes that you receive does that make
sense so be lazy just figure out how to
make laziness work don't try to not be
lazy dumb sorry for calling guys dump
but it is dumb it's like dumb I was dumb
I mean I'm still dumb probably like 10
years from now I'm gonna be sighs saying
something else about how stupid I was
before I was like oh I was so dumb like
I was telling people to be lazy like how
[ __ ] dumb is that so grow fine let's
say grow so I encourage you guys to
challenge yourself about
thinking about like how can you be as
lazy as possible this is your homework
for today okay and think about how many
jobs you need to apply to to maximize
your laziness think about that the more
jobs do you apply to does that increase
your capacity to be lazy over the next
year or decrease the capacity to be lazy
over the next year right so think about
it answer 0 fine effort zero values
infinity absolutely just be homeless no
don't just be homeless that's dumb I
mean if you are homeless I that's
unfortunate I'm not calling you stupid
but what I'm saying is that like just
think think a little bit about how
you're living your life and think about
if you can live it differently because I
still maintain that most of change in
life I know this sounds crazy it's not
through effort I mean it does it does
require effort but it's not through work
so I think the effort is actually up
here I think the effort is an increase
in intentionality so I sketched out like
anyway I'm gonna get off on another
channel tension I got to stop so I'm
sorry that we don't have time for
meditation but I want you guys to just
think about what we've talked about
today and try to think about how to
apply it to your own life like actually
like stop and reflect on it think about
how can you insert these principles into
your own life and whether they apply to
you or not and one of the biggest
biggest lessons that I learned is that I
know that we're all about
procrastinating and like not like
pushing back things but generally
speaking if you really want to be lazy
in life the solution is to front-load
your work for an optimal like setup down
the road that's really what it's about
all right so all these people who like
bought alter act valley like they're
there they're doing it right like you
can do you don't think that you can
bought real life like you can absolutely
bought real life absolutely do things
that increase your efficiency and like
make it like a lot of people are working
for stuff and you can just automate it
right so like this I mean we we've
automated a lot of stuff recently we're
trying to create workflows and you try
to think about it that balance seems
very hard to find you
very right it is very hard to find so oh
I forgot for a second if it's hard to do
you guys are just not gonna do it right
hard and impossible can be the same to a
gamer I'll leave you guys with that
thought and take care of guys so we're
gonna try to focus on this webinar a
couple of things so by the way a lot of
this stuff for those of you who have
supported us we are very very grateful
so we're gonna try to turn some of that
into a webinar and yeah I think right
now we're I don't know exactly how the
cost structure is gonna work I think
we're gonna try to make it free
hopefully I don't shoot myself in the
foot for that we're gonna see if there's
some way that we can swing a suggested
donation or maybe how people just
support us through patreon or something
like that we really don't want to charge
for it we may have to and if we do
charge for it it's gonna be like super
cheap but it's just we're gonna have to
figure out what our investment is and
and things like that but I think we're
getting a lot of support through streams
so I'm really really grateful for that
nor hope is to try to build this content
definitely what's coming out is YouTube
videos on a lot of this stuff so I have
there's one I'll just share with you one
guys one thing that I'm thinking about
oh yeah
so here's here's I want to do a video
about this what's the difference between
half-assing something and doing
something good enough and what's the
difference between waste and sacrifice
right so that's something that we're
doing a video about does that make sense
I think about that for a second
lots of answers lots and lots of answers
so what's the difference between
half-assing something and doing
something good enough and what's the
difference between waste and sacrifice
right so think about this stuff and then
the next question is is it important to
understand what the difference between
these two things are that's even a more
important question so these questions
that I asked like what's the value of me
like asking this stuff what do you think
do you think it'll change I mean I hope
that it'll change your life and I hope
it'll change your life because you'll
understand the difference between those
two things and hopefully you'll do one
instead of the other and and like so my
life has been changed through like
answering questions like this like I
really want y'all to understand this my
life has not been changed through
working harder it's been changed through
like understanding concepts and systems
that's like a no-brainer right like if
you guys see you know if you see like
speed runs like someone who does a
speedrun doesn't work harder than
someone who plays the game at a slow
pace what's the difference between a
speedrun and like a noob who plays the
game in fact the noob exerts a lot more
effort right like what exactly
proficiency optimization knowledge that
is the difference and the funny thing is
that the speed runner actually beats the
game and a fraction of the time is the
noob and so just think about that
knowledge is sufficient to actually
change your life for the better
absolutely you cannot teach experience I
completely agree but I can ask you guys
questions and you can reflect on them
and then you can gain understanding I
can't teach understanding either I can
give you information and that's part of
the reason that what I try to do is ask
questions and make statements that are
provocative from a thinking perspective
as my goal here is not to teach you my
goal here is to make you think because I
can give you guys all the answers and
it's not going to change you like the
goal is for you to think because that
also has to do with behavioral change
and how the brain works and stuff like
that right I'm not asking you guys to
memorize multiplication tables I'm
asking you guys to learn how to multiply
and I can I can
demonstrate multiplication tables I
cannot teach you how to multiply
multiplication is something you have to
learn and understand on your own
right do you guys get that I can't
transmit the knowledge of multiplication
to you as a concept that's the goal
anyway thank you guys very much we'll
see you all on when Wednesday
[Music]